# Rethinking Neural Networks: An Iterative, Probabilistic Approach

## Abstract

This paper introduces a novel approach to neural network architecture
that seeks to leverage probabilistic neuron firing and iterative network
processing to achieve real-time learning. The new method, which we term
'Iterative Probabilistic Neural Network (IPNN)', reimagines traditional
neuron activation with a Beta function governed firing probability and
incorporates recurrent connections from the output layer to the input
layer, enabling the network to "consider" its output over multiple
iterations.

## Introduction

Neural networks, traditionally trained upfront, have shown remarkable
performance in various domains. However, their rigid nature and
inability to adapt in real-time have long been areas of concern. This
paper explores a novel approach to address this limitation by
introducing an architecture that operates differently. We propose an
Iterative Probabilistic Neural Network (IPNN) where neurons fire based
on a probability function, allowing for real-time learning and
adaptation.

## Architecture

The architecture of IPNN diverges from traditional networks by
integrating multiple distinct aspects: a probabilistic firing of
neurons, a recurrent loop from the output to the input layer, and
neurons on the input layer representing the known labels. Each neuron in
the network has a Beta function-defined firing probability, controlled
by alpha and beta parameters. In the absence of labels, the network
fires and produces an output that feeds back into the input, creating an
iterative loop that lets the network "consider" its output over time.

## Learning Mechanism

The learning process in IPNN adapts dynamically based on available
labels. When labels are provided, the alpha and beta parameters of each
neuron are adjusted to tighten the probability distribution that defines
whether a neuron will fire. This real-time learning mechanism has
potential implications for online learning scenarios, wherein the model
can adaptively learn from the data stream, rather than relying on a
predefined training phase.

## Hypothesis and Approach

Our hypothesis is that by allowing the network to iteratively process
its input and "think" about the results over time, the IPNN could
potentially improve prediction accuracy and robustness. To evaluate
this, we propose to conduct extensive empirical analysis on various
datasets. By running the network for a fixed number of iterations for
each input, the output can be treated as a probability distribution over
possible results, yielding a more nuanced and potentially accurate
prediction.

## Potential Implications

The proposed IPNN has potential implications in many areas of machine
learning, from online learning scenarios to tasks that involve
sequential data. It can also introduce a form of inherent uncertainty
quantification in neural networks, providing a new perspective for
understanding model predictions.

The IPNN is a step towards rethinking the structure of neural networks
and how they learn. Its implementation and evaluation could pave the way
for a new class of adaptive, probabilistic neural networks that offer
improvements over traditional methods in real-time learning scenarios.

## Conclusion

While the idea of IPNN is promising, it also opens up many questions
regarding its implementation, scalability, efficiency, and the
comparison of its performance with existing methods. Future work will be
devoted to addressing these questions and exploring the full potential
of this novel approach. Despite the challenges ahead, the proposed
method shows promise in pushing the boundaries of our current
understanding and use of neural networks.
